docs/css/align-justify-items.md, before:

# Align vs Justify Items

One of the most confusing things for me and also frequently forgotten is
how align-items and justify-content options work in CSS and when to use which one.

:::important[Flex Only Feature]
Both **align-items** and **justify-content** options in CSS are only for flex containers.
They control the position of the items within a flex container.
:::

![Flex Axis](../.././static/img/flex-main-cross-axis.excalidraw.png)

## Justify Content

Used to control the position of flex items over the **main axis** of the flex container.

## Align Item

Used to control the position of flex items over the **cross axis** of the flex container.

## Justify and Align Individual Items

The options above are valid for all items in the flex container.
But **justify-self** and **align-self** can be used to control the position of a specific
flex item on main and cross axis respectively.

:::info[useful links]

-   https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5295881-create-web-page-layouts-with-css/5415181-align-items-and-justify-content
    :::

Commit message:

Feature/fix style (#177)
* fix styles for talks

* add example usage

* fix talk location style

docs/css/align-justify-items.md, after:

# Align vs Justify Items

One of the most confusing things for me and also frequently forgotten is
how align-items and justify-content options work in CSS and when to use which one.

:::important[Flex Only Feature]
Both **align-items** and **justify-content** options in CSS are only for flex containers.
They control the position of the items within a flex container.
:::

![Flex Axis](../.././static/img/flex-main-cross-axis.excalidraw.png)

## Justify Content

Used to control the position of flex items over the **main axis** of the flex container.

## Align Item

Used to control the position of flex items over the **cross axis** of the flex container.

For example, when you want have a row direction flex, using align-items option, we can place all the horizontal items at the same vertical level.

## Justify and Align Individual Items

The options above are valid for all items in the flex container.
But **justify-self** and **align-self** can be used to control the position of a specific
flex item on main and cross axis respectively.

:::info[useful links]

-   https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5295881-create-web-page-layouts-with-css/5415181-align-items-and-justify-content
    :::
